This is my personal bashrc. It is currently used on different Linux flavors
(mainly Fedora, Debian and Gentoo) and on Mac OS X. It might work on other
platforms. If you encounter any problems on your platform, feel free to contact
me. Of course patches to make the code more portable are very welcome.

# Installation

You can install this bashrc either for one user or system wide, so that it will
be used by every user on the system.

In addition to the manual installation and update procedure, there also exists
an automatic installer and updater. This currently only works if the bashrc is
installed for one user.

## System Wide

To install it system wide you have to place the code somewhere (for example
`/usr/local/share/r9e-bashrc`):

```sh
mkdir -p /usr/local/share
git clone 'git://github.com/rioderelfte/r9e-bashrc.git' /usr/local/share/r9e-bashrc
```

Then you have to make sure the `src/init.sh` file
(e.g. `/usr/local/share/r9e-bashrc/src/init.sh`) gets sourced during the bash
start up. On Linux this can be achieved by creating a symbolic link in
`/etc/profile.d`:

```sh
ln -s /usr/local/share/r9e-bashrc/src/init.sh /etc/profile.d/r9e-bashrc.sh
```

Since all these changes are system wide of course all of the above commands have
to be run as root.

## Per User

To install the bashrc for one user the code has to be placed somewhere, too
(e.g. `~/r9e-bashrc`):

```sh
git clone 'git://github.com/rioderelfte/r9e-bashrc.git' ~/r9e-bashrc
```

Then you need to make sure `src/init.sh` gets sourced. Either you can source it
from your `~/.bashrc` or you can just link it:

```sh
rm .bashrc
ln -s r9e-bashrc/src/init.sh ~/.bashrc
```

### .bashrc and .bash_profile

Since bash only reads `~/.bashrc` if it is invoked as an interactive shell that
is no login shell (see the
[reference manual](http://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Bash-Startup-Files.html)
for details), your `~/.bash_profile` (or `~/.profile`) should source the
`~/.bashrc`. Most Linux distributions automatically install an appropriate
`~/bash_profile` (or `~/.profile` on Debian) if you create a new user. If your
`~/.bash_profile` does not source the bashrc, simply insert something like the
following into this file:

```sh
if [ -f "${HOME}/.bashrc" ]; then
    source "${HOME}/.bashrc"
fi
```

## Per User With Automatic Updater

To automatically install this bashrc for one user, a convenience script
`install.sh` is provided in this repository. You can execute it by simply
running:

```sh
curl 'https://raw.github.com/rioderelfte/r9e-bashrc/master/install.sh' | bash
```

The script clones this repository to `~/.r9e/bashrc` and installs a `~/.bashrc`
file which will source `~/.r9e/bashrc/src/init.sh`. If you already had a
`~/.bashrc` it will be renamed to `~/.bashrc.pre-r9e`. But please see the script
itself if you want more details.

The automatic installer does not ensure your `~/.bash_profile` sources the
bashrc. See the section [.bashrc and .bash_profile](#bashrc-and-bash_profile)
above for details.

After installing the bashrc this way you will also have an automatic
updater. Simply running `r9e_bashrc_update` will pull the git repository and
source the newly fetched bashrc. You will also get a gentle reminder every time
you start a new bash if you did not run the updater for at least one week.

# Customization

During start up, the bashrc will source several files which can be customized by
the user. Apart from the normal bash customization (like `shopt`, `alias` and so
on) also some of the functions from this bashrc (for example the prompting) can
be customized, but I won't go into much detail about this.

Additionally the bashrc supports few options, which have to be set before
sourcing the bashrc. For a list of those you can see the `~/.bashrc` file
generated by the `install.sh` script. But probably you don't have to change any
of these.

The following files are currently sourced during the bashrc start up:

* `/etc/r9e-bashrc.sh`
* `~/.bashrc.local`
* `~/.bash_aliases`

Also every file with the file extension `.sh` from the following directories is
sourced:

* `/etc/r9e-bashrc.d`
* `~/.bashrc.d`

If these directories contain subdirectories (or symbolic links to directories)
named `*.d`, files from these directories will be sourced recursively.
